README.md, before:

# plyinteractions <img src="man/figures/logo.png" align="right" alt="" width="180" />

<!-- badges: start -->
<!-- badges: end -->

`plyinteractions` provides a consistent interface for importing and wrangling 
genomic interactions from `pairs` and `bedpe` files into `GInteractions` in `R`. 

The package follows the grammar of tidy genomic data transformation defined by 
[`plyranges`](https://www.bioconductor.org/packages/packages/plyranges.html), 
itself based on [`dplyr`](https://dplyr.tidyverse.org/) 
and [`rlang`](https://rlang.r-lib.org/). 

The operations currently available for `GInteractions` objects are: 

- Group genomic interactions with `group_by`; 
- Summarize grouped genomic interactions with `summarize`; 
- Tally/count grouped genomic interactions with `tally` and `count`; 
- Modify genomic interactions with `mutate`; 
- Subset genomic interactions with `filter` using
[`<data-masking>`](https://rlang.r-lib.org/reference/args_data_masking.html) 
and logical expressions; 
- Pick out any columns from the associated metadata with `select` 
using [`<tidy-select>` arguments](https://dplyr.tidyverse.org/reference/dplyr_tidy_select.html); 
- Subset using indices with `slice`;
- Order genomic interactions with `arrange` using categorical/numerical 
variables. 

## Installation

`plyinteractions` can be currently be installed from GitHub:

```r
BiocManager::install("tidyomics/plyinteractions")
```

## Using `plyinteractions`

For more details, check our [vignette](vignettes/plyinteractions.Rmd). 

## Code of Conduct

Please note that this project is released with a
[Contributor Code of
Conduct](http://bioconductor.org/about/code-of-conduct/). By
contributing to this project, you agree to abide by its terms.

## Acknowledgments 

This package is largely inspired by `plyranges` and the `tidyverse`: 

- Lee, Stuart, Dianne Cook, and Michael Lawrence. 2019. “Plyranges: A Grammar of Genomic Data Transformation.” Genome Biology 20 (1): 4. https://doi.org/10.1186/s13059-018-1597-8.
- Wickham H, François R, Henry L, Müller K, Vaughan D (2023). _dplyr: A Grammar of Data Manipulation_. R package version 1.1.2, <https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=dplyr>.
- Henry L, Wickham H (2023). _rlang: Functions for Base Types and Core R and 'Tidyverse' Features_. R package version 1.1.1, <https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=rlang>.

Commit message:

doc: stress out that plyinteractions is largely based on plyranges

README.md, after:

# plyinteractions <img src="man/figures/logo.png" align="right" alt="" width="180" />

<!-- badges: start -->
<!-- badges: end -->

`plyinteractions` provides a consistent interface for importing and wrangling 
genomic interactions from `pairs` and `bedpe` files into `GInteractions` in `R`. 

The package follows the grammar of tidy genomic data transformation defined by 
[`plyranges`](https://www.bioconductor.org/packages/packages/plyranges.html), 
itself based on [`dplyr`](https://dplyr.tidyverse.org/) 
and [`rlang`](https://rlang.r-lib.org/). 

The operations currently available for `GInteractions` objects are: 

- Group genomic interactions with `group_by`; 
- Summarize grouped genomic interactions with `summarize`; 
- Tally/count grouped genomic interactions with `tally` and `count`; 
- Modify genomic interactions with `mutate`; 
- Subset genomic interactions with `filter` using
[`<data-masking>`](https://rlang.r-lib.org/reference/args_data_masking.html) 
and logical expressions; 
- Pick out any columns from the associated metadata with `select` 
using [`<tidy-select>` arguments](https://dplyr.tidyverse.org/reference/dplyr_tidy_select.html); 
- Subset using indices with `slice`;
- Order genomic interactions with `arrange` using categorical/numerical 
variables. 

## Installation

`plyinteractions` can be currently be installed from GitHub:

```r
BiocManager::install("tidyomics/plyinteractions")
```

## Using `plyinteractions`

For more details, check our [vignette](vignettes/plyinteractions.Rmd). 

## Code of Conduct

Please note that this project is released with a
[Contributor Code of
Conduct](http://bioconductor.org/about/code-of-conduct/). By
contributing to this project, you agree to abide by its terms.

## Acknowledgments 

`plyinteractions` package is heavily based on `plyranges`. It adapts a 
number of functions and methods defined in that package, and would not have 
been developed without the seminal work from Stuart Lee, Dianne Cook and Michael 
Lawrence: 

- Lee, Stuart, Dianne Cook, and Michael Lawrence. 2019. “Plyranges: A Grammar of Genomic Data Transformation.” Genome Biology 20 (1): 4. https://doi.org/10.1186/s13059-018-1597-8.

This package is largely inspired by the `tidyverse`:

- Wickham H, François R, Henry L, Müller K, Vaughan D (2023). _dplyr: A Grammar of Data Manipulation_. R package version 1.1.2, <https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=dplyr>.
- Henry L, Wickham H (2023). _rlang: Functions for Base Types and Core R and 'Tidyverse' Features_. R package version 1.1.1, <https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=rlang>.
